+++
title = "We Choose To Go To The Moon"

[extra]
location = "San Francisco"
+++

In an inspirational and aspirational [speech][speech] to a crowd of 35,000 on
September 12, 1962 John F. Kennedy outlined his goals for the nation's space
effort.

<!-- more -->

>  We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not
>  because they are easy, but because they are hard, because that goal will
>  serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills, because
>  that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to
>  postpone, and one which we intend to win, and the others, too.


![](/img/2015/July/moon-landings.gif)
*Every Apollo moon landing. [[source](http://www.psrd.hawaii.edu/Jan01/lunarCataclysm.html)]*

JFK's rally around the space race was incredibly important and very intentional
at the time. The year the speech was delivered, there was a perception that the
Americans were losing the space race. The Soviets had launched Sputnik and put
the [first man](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yuri_Gagarin) in space. Landing on
the moon seemed like an impossible feat, especially when it seemed that the
nation was already far behind.

Ever since hearing about the speech, Kennedy's words continue to resonate with
me, a reminder in tough instances that sometimes we do things simply because
they are difficult, because they are uncomfortable, and because the challenge
is one that will push us farther than we ever could before. In a single
powerfully compelling moment, Kennedy turns the act of facing the challenge
itself into one that serves to push us as a human race and as humans. Kennedy
wants us to relish the fact that we are seemingly behind because the the act of
landing on the moon will be that much greater of a victory in the end.

However, it can be silly to do something because it's hard, as the following
[XKCD](http://what-if.xkcd.com/124/) bit illustrates. There has to be a little
substance to make the challenge worthwhile.

![](/img/2015/July/kennedy.png)
*Sourced from [Lunar Swimming](http://what-if.xkcd.com/124/)*

Of course, a worthwhile challenge is hard to define and find. This is
especially evident in an age where any issue, big or small, can be instantly
heard by millions, if not billions, of people around the world. Some have
[lamented the youth][problemmatic-youth] stating that there seems to be a
disconnect between what they believe is worthwhile and what is not. Others
point to our generation as largely [mission driven][kpcb-trends] and moreso
than previous ones. Personal observations suggest a mixture of both and as part
of the lamented youth, all I can say is that time will tell.

After Kennedy's speech in 1962, it wasn't until 1969 that the United States
landed the first humans on the moon, ending the Space Race and creating the
incredible legacy that still lives on to this very day. Recently, the [New
Horizons probe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Horizons) reached its
destination after 9 long years, capturing never before seen images of Pluto in
incredible quality and providing scientists with innumerable important
observations.

The ending thesis, if there was one, is that in the midst of the nitty gritty
of trying to solve difficult problems, we sometimes lose sight of the reasons
that brought us here in the first place. Maybe it was the desire to push forth
the human race, save the planet, or maybe it was to push ourselves into
uncharted terrority. Whatever the reason, no matter how far we feel we may be
behind, or how difficult it may seem in the moment, the challenge must be one that motivates, accept with, and relish with every single fiber of our being.
And, most of all, one that we intend to *win*.

Otherwise, why bother?

[speech]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/We_choose_to_go_to_the_Moon

[problemmatic-youth]: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/16/magazine/silicon-valleys-youth-problem.html

[kpcb-trends]: http://www.kpcb.com/blog/2015-internet-trends