+++
title = "A Moveable Feast"

[extra]
location = "San Francisco"
+++

Hemingway recalled his experiences as a young man living in Paris as a
moveable feast. The people he met, the skills he learned and refined, and
the ideas he was exposed to during those times stuck with him until the
very end. It molded him into the person he would become.

<!-- more -->

College and graduate school seemed so short-lived and unproductive to be
considered my version of Hemingway's moveable feast. During that time, I
can not deny meeting incredible people and learning incredible skills. But
it didn't feel as if there was a clear path to move any further from where
I was and what I was doing. Keeping with the feast metaphor, those days
felt more like appetizers and I needed to move on to the main course. Life
is filled with many moveable feasts, some smaller and some larger than
others. Perhaps the time I'm spending here in San Francisco will be of the
grander ones. Time will tell.


## Camaraderie

> For what are we born if not to aid one another?

Whenever you put together a large cohort of people in a single location you
will evitably foster a community of peers. There is struggle and passion.
There is strength and humility. There is fear and there is success. You are
placed on trial everyday and watch others sit through the same. And it's
remarkable how we come back day after day to face those same plights
again and again.

Some would argue that the atmosphere created by this mish-mash of different
teams and people would make it difficult to be productive. At a glance this
is true, there are distractions at every turn. However, distractions will
always be there in one form or another. The greater value is seeing others
spend just as many late nights and long days, struggling with the same
problems, and coming together with the same solutions. Exposure to new
lines of thought and new forms of thinking are intangible benefits,
difficult to measure and quantify, but I believe ultimately useful in the
longterm.


## Late nights & long days

> I love sleep.
> My life has the tendency to fall apart while I'm awake, you know?

Here we are a more than halfway through the accelerator and the feeling in
the air is one of hazy optimism. The weeks have grown shorter and the task
list compounds day after day. Nights blur together. Some people stay later,
putting in crucial extra hours. Others bring in help to ease the pain.
There is a general struggle for normality. More ping-pong games, more rowdy
Friday nights. I don't think we don't fear the work, nor do we fear that it
is too much. What we fear is that despite it all, it isn't enough.