+++
title = "This Side of Paradise"

[extra]
location = "San Francisco"
+++

There would be those who see a lot of glamour in start-ups and the whole
concept of entrepreneurship. It is romanticized by the media who broadcasts
million dollar valuations and billion dollar acquisitions. And for many, it is
the ultimate meritocracy, appealing to those whom other cracies never appealed.
The meritocracy was a guarantee that those with the smarts and know-how were
adequately rewarded while those who fell short of godliness, failed. It evened
the playing field for all, so much so that even the most out of place could
still find a place.

<!-- more -->

> [We wanted flying cars, instead we got 140 characters](http://foundersfund.com/the-future/).

And yet, almost in stark contradiction, it is easy to lament the state of the
field. Social this and media that? Entire companies based on premises that any
eight-bit fool could have thought of and thrown together. There seem to be
millions, if not more, flowing into what seems to be nothing more than weekend
projects. Add to that to the assortment of articles about founders who have
questionable character and/or judgement and their follies; from the outside,
you can't help but feel that there is something amiss.

> Outside of a dog, a book is man's best friend.
> Inside of a dog, it's too dark to read.

At least that's how it seems when the only source of information comes from
eye-catching headlines. Speaking to founders you get the sense that they're all
creating products to improve some small part of the world. While optimistic, it
can be difficult to believe that every product will save the world. Perhaps
instead, the discussion should be towards the notion of [social
design](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_design). At the time of it's
conceptualization, the onus of social design fell on designers. However, in a
world where anyone can create, where everyone is creating, *everyone* has the
ability to envision and give form to products that address human problems on a
broad scale and contribute to social well-being.

> What will your verse be?

Products that connect people who would have never connected, who give a voice
to those that had none, who make humans more productive, these are the breeds
that address human ills. Products that facilitate distraction, shallow
connections, these are the products that *create* human ills. The bar should be
set at a product that makes you, the user, a better human. Better as a human or
better because you yourself have contributed something to the greater
community.
